### Designing for Different Sized Screens
3 platforms typically designed for 
	desktop, mobile, tablet
2 general strategies for designing for all 3: 
1. Graceful degradation
	Design desktop first, modify design to fit other form factors
2. Progressive Enhancement 
	mobile first, design for smallest devices then adapt to larger screens

### Media Queries
wepages with responsive web design adapt to different viewport sizes using media queries. 
Media Query 
	combination of media type and optionally one or more media feature expressions that evaluate to true or false
	media feature is a characteristic of a browser, device, or environment. 
		`aspect-ratio, height, and orientation`

`min-` or `max-` to express >= or <= constraints 
	`min-width: 200px` means width >= 200px 

media types used in media queries: 

|Media type|Description|
|---|---|
|all|All devices (default value if no media type is listed)|
|print|For printers and documents viewed on screen in print preview mode|
|screen|Intended for screens|

|Media features|Description|
|---|---|
|aspect-ratio|Viewport's width-to-height aspect ratio|
|height|Viewport's height|
|width|Viewport's width|
|orientation|Viewport's orientation: portrait or landscape|
|resolution|Device's pixel density|
Media queries are often used in `<link>` elements and in stylesheets
	specified with the media attribute. When the media query matches (evaluates to true), the link stylesheet is downloaded.
	A media query in a stylesheet is specified with the @media at-rule. An at-rule is a CSS statement that starts with the @ chracter and instructs the CSS engine how to behave. When a media query in a stylesheet matches, the @media's inner rules are defined. 

### Breakpoints 
developers choose 'breakpoints' to determine when content should be displayed, resized, or hidden in a webpage 
breakpoint
	screen width that activates a media query 
	`@media screen and (max-width: 800px)` , 800 is the breakpoint 
	target size not specific devices
media querys break if the viewport meta element does not have the viewport width set to the device width 
	`<viewport name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1>`

Basically if the screen's viewport is larger then the set parameter, it will display properties associated with the breakpoint


`header > h1` selector to make the h1 font size 3rem instead of 2rem.