`<form>` element allows the web browser to submit information from the user to the server
Two Primary Attributes
1. Action Attribute
	indicates the URL where the form data should be sent. Typically the URL uses HTTPS for encryption 
2. Method Attribute
	indicates the HTTP request type the browser will use to communicate. The method is either GET or POST. GET is default if no method is specified. 
	
```
<form action="https://example.com/apply" method="POST">
   <p>
      <label for="first">First Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="first" id="first">
   </p>
   <p>
      <label for="last">Last Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="last" id="last">
   </p>
   <input type="submit">
</form>
```

#### GET Method 
GET Method is a technique used by a web browser to submit info to a web server by altering the URL of the HTTP request. 
the query string character `?` appears after the URL when submitting data with the GET method 
	`http://exmaple.org/?item=bannana`
User clicking on a submit button in a form uses the GET method, the browser performs the following steps:
1. Collect all data from the form fields into a query string. The query string is a set of name=value pairs separated by the ampersand character (&). Each name is specified as an attribute of the HTML field, and the value is the user-entered data. 
2. Create a URL with the server page and name=value pairs
3. Use newly created URL to create and send an HTTP GET request 
4. Display or update the webpage using the HTTP response received from the server 

GET Method uses the URL to send information it should not be used to send personal or financial information. 

```
<body>
  <form action="https://example.com/apply">
    <p>
      <label for="first">First Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="first" id="first">
    </p>
    <p>
      <label for="last">Last Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="last" id="last">
    </p>
    <input type="submit">
  </form>
</body>
```

#### Post Method
Technique used by a web browser to submit info to a web server by sending the information in the HTTP request body. 
the query string `?` does not appear in the POST method
When the user clicks a submit button using the POST method the browser performs the following:
1. Create an HTTP POST request using the URL from the form's `action` attribute
2. Create a query string from the form data. 
	`firt=Sarah&last=Connor`
3. Place the query string in the HTTP request message body, and send the request 
4. Display or update the webpage using the HTTP response received from the server

`<enctype>` encoding attribute allows you to split a POST request into multiple parts to allow for larger data transfers 
	this allows for uploading images/media

```
<body>
  <form action="https://example.com/apply" method="POST"
        enctype="multipart/form-data">
    <p>
      <label for="first">First Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="first" id="first">
    </p>
    <p>
      <label for="last">Last Name:</label>
      <input type="text" name="last" id="last">
    </p>
    <p>
      <label for="pic">Upload picture:</label>
      <input type="file" name="pic" id="pic">
    </p>
    <input type="submit">
  </form>
</body>
```
#### Escaping form data

The &, ?, and = characters have special meaning in a query string. If a user enters characters like &, ?, =, or white space characters like space, newline, or tab, the characters must be escaped, meaning the characters must be transformed into other representations. The browser rules for escaping form data are as follows:

- Space → `+`
- All other reserved characters, newline, and tab → %XX where XX is the ASCII hex value of the character

Ex: If "1 + 2 = ?" is entered into a textbox, the browser escapes the values producing "1+%2B+2+%3D+%3F". 2B is the ASCII hex value for "+", 3D is the ASCII value for "=", and 3F is the ASCII value for "?".

The web server unescapes the form data to determine what the original values are.

#### Form Widgets 
widgets are interactive components that the browser uses to interact with a user 
	buttons, drop down menus, data entry fields, etc 
`<input>` element allows users to enter information into a webpage. The `<input>` element is a void element with five primary attributes 
	`Type` attribute
		indicates the widget type. Text, password, submit, button, etc
	`Name` attribute
		names the widget and sends value when widget's form is submitted
	`id` attribute
		used to give a widget a unique identifier 
	`placeholder` attribute
		specifies text that first appears in a text widget, typically for giving the user a hint as to the expected value 
	`value` attribute
		specifies default value for widget

**text box** widget is an `<input>` element with the `type="text"` that allows users to enter a single line of text. 

**submit button** widget is an `<input>` element with `type="submit"`

```
<form action="https://twitter.com/status" method="POST">
  <input type="text" name="status" id="status" placeholder="Your status">
  <input type="submit" value="Send status">
</form>
```
#### Labels and Text Areas
`<label>` 
	element displays descriptive text associated with a specific widget. 
		has the `for` attribute whose value should match the `id` attribute for the widget being labeled 
	helps with screen readers 
```
<label for="username">Username:</label>
<input type="text" id="username">
```


`<textarea>`
	element allows users to enter multiple lines of text 
	has optional `rows` and `cols` attribute that define how large the initial text area is
```
<textarea name="summary" rows="4" cols="50">To summarize...</textarea>
```

